# 高壓電池規則整理

[https://www.targray.com/li-ion-battery/cathode-materials/cathode-active-materials](https://www.targray.com/li-ion-battery/cathode-materials/cathode-active-materials)

**在設計電池箱內電系前(電池模組，電路，有的沒的系統)，建議瀏覽過F.10 Accumulator Container**

**和強烈建議看完所有EV規則，以下是將高壓電池組相關規則整理後的描述：**

# ***EV.5.3 Accumulator Container 電池箱***

EV.5.3.1 Accumulator Containers must meet F.10

EV.5.3.2 The Accumulator Container(s) must be removable from the vehicle while still

remaining rules compliant.

EV.5.3.3 The Accumulator Container(s) must be completely closed at all times (when

mounted to the vehicle and when removed from the vehicle) without the need to

install extra protective covers.

EV.5.3.4 The Accumulator Container(s) may contain Holes or Openings.

a. Only the wiring harness, ventilation, cooling and fasteners may pass through

holes in the Accumulator Container(s)

b. Holes and Openings in the Accumulator Container must meet F.10.4

c. External holes must meet EV.7.1

EV.5.3.5 Any Accumulators that may vent an explosive gas must have a ventilation system

or pressure relief valve to prevent the vented gas from reaching an explosive concentration.

EV.5.3.6 Completely sealed Accumulator Containers must have a pressure relief valve to

prevent high pressure in the container.

EV.5.3.7 Each Accumulator Container must be labeled with the:

a. Symbol specified in ISO 7010-W012 (triangle with black lightning bolt onyellow background) with triangle side length of 100 mm minimum

b. Text “Always Energized”

c. Text “High Voltage” if the voltage meets T.9.1.1

EV.5.4 Grounded Low Voltage System 

EV.5.4.1 The GLV System must be a Low Voltage system that is Grounded to the Chassis.

b. Next to the TSMP EV.6.8

EV.5.4.2 The GLV System must include a Master Switch, see EV.8.9.1

EV.5.4.3 A GLV Measuring Point (GLVMP) must be installed which is:

a. Connected to GLV System Ground

c. 4 mm shrouded banana jack

d. Color: Black

e. Marked “GND”

EV.5.4.4 Low Voltage Batteries must meet T.9.2 

EV.5.9 Housings and Enclosures 

EV.5.9.1 Every housing or enclosure containing parts of the Tractive System other than

        Motor housings, must be labeled with the:

a. Symbol specified in ISO 7010-W012 (triangle with black lightning bolt on yellow background)

b. Text “High Voltage” if the voltage meets T.9.1.1

EV.5.9.2 If the housing material is electrically conductive or possibly electrically conductive,

it must have a low resistance connection to GLV System Ground, see EV.7.7

EV.5.10 Accumulator Hand Cart  

EV.5.10.1 Teams must have a Hand Cart to transport their Accumulator Container(s).

EV.5.10.2 The Hand Cart must be used when the Accumulator Container(s) are transported \

           on the competition site.

EV.5.10.3 Accumulator Container(s) must be securely attached to the Hand Cart.

EV.5.10.4 The Hand Cart must:

a. Be able to carry the load of the Accumulator Container(s) without tipping over

b. Contain a minimum of two wheels

c. Have a brake that must be:

- Released only using a dead man type switch (where the brake is always
    
    on except when released by pushing and holding a handle)
    
- Able to stop the Hand Cart with a fully loaded Accumulator Container

EV.5.3.1 電池箱必須符合 F.10。

EV.5.3.2 電池箱必須可從車輛上取下，同時仍保持規則合規。

EV.5.3.3 電池箱必須始終完全關閉(安裝到車輛和從車輛上拆下時)，無需安裝額外的保護蓋。

EV.5.3.4 電池箱容器可以包含孔或開口：

a、只有線束、通風、冷卻和緊固件可以穿過電池箱容器

b、電池箱容器中的孔和開口必須符合 F.10.4

c、外孔必須符合 EV.7.1

EV.5.3.5 任何可能排放爆炸性氣體的蓄能器都必須有通風系統或壓力安全閥，以防止排出的氣體達到爆炸濃度。

EV.5.3.6 完全密封的電池箱必須有一個洩壓閥以防止容器內的高壓。

EV.5.3.7 每個電池箱必須標有:

a、ISO 7010-W012 中指定的符號(黃色上帶有黑色閃電的三角形背景)，

三角形邊長至少為 100 mm

b、文字「Always Energized」

c、文字「High Voltage」如果電壓符合規則 T.9.1.1

EV.5.4 接地低壓系統

EV.5.4.1 GLV 系統必須是接地到外殼的低壓系統。

EV.5.4.2 GLV 系統必須包括一個主開關，參見規則 EV.8.9.1。

EV.5.4.3 必須安裝一個 GLV 測量點(GLVMP)，並且:

a、連接到 GLV 系統地

b、在 TSMP 旁邊(TSMP 見 EV.6.8)

c、4 mm 帶罩香蕉插孔

d、顏色:黑色

e、標有「GND」

EV.5.4.4 低壓電池必須符合 T.9.2。

EV.5.9 封蓋和外殼

EV.5.9.1 除電機外的牽引系統部件的每個封蓋或外殼，必須標有:

a、ISO 7010-W012 中指定的符號(黃色上帶有黑色閃電的三角形背景)

b、若電壓符合 T.9.1.1，則標示「High Voltage」

EV.5.9.2 如果外殼材料是導電的或可能導電的，它必須與 GLV 系統接地有低電阻連

        接，參見 EV.7.7。

EV.5.10蓄能器手推車

EV.5.10.1 團隊必須有一輛手推車來運輸他們的電池箱。

EV.5.10.2 在比賽場地運輸電池箱必須使用手推車。

EV.5.10.3 電池箱必須牢固地連接到手推車。

EV.5.10.4 手推車必須：

a、能夠在不翻倒的情況下承載電池箱的負載

b、至少包含兩個輪子

c、剎車必須是:

●控鈕型開關(制動器始終打開，除了按住手柄時)

●能在裝上滿載電池箱時停止手推車

# **EV.6 ENERGY STORAGE 能量儲存**

EV.6.1 Accumulator

**EV.6.1.1** All cells or super capacitors which store the Tractive System energy are built into Accumulator Segments and must be enclosed in (an) Accumulator Container(s).

**EV.6.1.2** Each Accumulator Segment must contain:

a. Maximum static voltage of less than 120 V DC

b. Maximum energy of 6 MJ

The contained energy of a stack is calculated by multiplying the maximum stack voltage with the nominal capacity of the used cell(s).

**EV.6.1.3** No further energy storage except for reasonably sized intermediate circuit capacitors are allowed after the Energy Meter (EV.4.2)

**EV.6.1.4** All Accumulator Segments and/or Accumulator Containers (including spares and replacement parts) must be identical to the design documented in the ESF and SES

EV.6.2 Electrical Configuration

**EV.6.2.1** All Tractive System components must be rated for the maximum Tractive System voltage

**EV.6.2.2** If the Accumulator Container is made from an electrically conductive material:

a. The poles of the Accumulator Segment(s) and/or cells must be isolated from the inner wall of the Accumulator Container with an insulating material that is rated for the maximum Tractive System voltage.

b. All conductive surfaces on the outside of the Accumulator Container must have a low resistance connection to the GLV System Ground, see EV.7.7

c. Any conductive penetrations, such as mounting hardware, must be protected against puncturing the insulating barrier.

**EV.6.2.3** Each Accumulator Segment must be electrically insulated with suitable Nonflammable Material (F.1.18) (not air) between the segments in the container and on top of the segment. The intent is to prevent arc flashes caused by inter segment contact or by parts/tools accidentally falling into the container during maintenance for example.

**EV.6.2.4** Soldering electrical connections in the high current path is prohibited. Soldering wires to cells for the voltage monitoring input of the AMS is allowed, these wires are not part of the high current path.

**EV.6.2.5** Every wire used in an Accumulator Container, whether it is part of the GLV or Tractive System, must be rated to the maximum Tractive System voltage.

EV.6.3 Maintenance Plug

EV.6.3.1 Maintenance Plugs must allow electrical separation of the Accumulator Segments to meet:

a.The separated Segments meet voltage and energy limits of EV.6.1.2

b. The separation must affect both poles of the Segment

EV.6.3.2 Maintenance Plugs must:

a. Require the physical removal or separation of a component. Contactors or switches are not acceptable Maintenance Plugs

b. Not be physically possible to connect in any configuration other than the design intended configuration

c. Not require tools to install or remove

d. Include a positive locking feature which prevents the plug from unintentionally becoming loose

e. Be nonconductive on surfaces that do not provide any electrical connection

EV.6.3.3 When the Accumulator Containers are opened or Segments are removed, the Accumulator Segments must be separated by using the Maintenance Plugs. See EV.10.2.1

EV.6.4 Accumulator Isolation Relays - AIR****

**EV.6.4.1** Every Accumulator Container must contain minimum one fuse (EV.7.6) and two or more Accumulator Isolation Relays (AIR)

**EV.6.4.2** The Accumulator Isolation Relays must:

a. Be a Normally Open type

b. Open both poles of the Accumulator

**EV.6.4.3** When the AIRs are open, High Voltage T.9.1.1 must not be present outside of the Accumulator Container.

**EV.6.4.4** The Accumulator Isolation Relays and any fuses must be separated from the rest of the Accumulator with an electrically insulated and Nonflammable Material (F.1.18).

**EV.6.4.5** A capacitor may be used to hold the AIRs closed for up to 250 ms after the Shutdown Circuit Opens EV.8.2.2

EV.6.6 Precharge and Discharge Circuits

**EV.6.6.1** The Accumulator must contain a Precharge Circuit. The Precharge Circuit must:

a. Be able to charge the Intermediate Circuit to minimum 90% of the Accumulator voltage before closing the second AIR

b. Be supplied from the Shutdown Circuit EV.8.1

c. Not be fused

**EV.6.6.2** The Intermediate Circuit must precharge before closing the second AIR. The end of precharge must be controlled by one of the following two options:

a. Feedback by monitoring the voltage in the Intermediate Circuit

b. A conservative time defined by the longer of:

- Twice the time to charge to 90%
- The time to charge to 90% plus 500ms

**EV.6.6.3** The Tractive System must contain a Discharge Circuit. The Discharge Circuit must be:

a. Wired in a way that it is always active when the Shutdown Circuit is open

b. Able to discharge the Intermediate Circuit capacitors if the HVD has been opened c. Not be fused d. Designed to handle the maximum discharge current for minimum 15 seconds

**EV.6.6.4** Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC) devices must not be used to limit current for the Precharge Circuit or Discharge Circuit

**EV.6.6.5** The precharge relay must be a mechanical type relay

EV.6.7 Voltage Indicator

Each Accumulator Container must have a prominent indicator when High Voltage T.9.1.1 is present at the vehicle side of the AIRs

**EV.6.7.1** The Voltage Indicator must always function, including when the Accumulator Container is disconnected or removed

**EV.6.7.2** The voltage being present at the connectors must directly control the Voltage Indicator using hard wired electronics with no software control.

**EV.6.7.3** The control signal which closes the AIRs must not control the Voltage Indicator

**EV.6.7.4** The Voltage Indicator must:

a. Be located where it is clearly visible when connecting/disconnecting the Accumulator Tractive System connections

b. Be labeled “High Voltage Present”

EV.6.10 Connectors

Tractive System connectors outside of a housing must meet one of the two:

- Contain an Interlock EV.8.8 which must Open the Shutdown Circuit EV.8.2.2
- Be sealed at Tech Inspection IN.4.7.1

EV.7.1 Covers

EV.7.2 Insulation

EV.7.4 Connections

EV.7.5 Voltage Separation

EV.7.6 Overcurrent Protection

EV.8.4 Accumulator Voltage

EV.8.5 Accumulator Temperature